Which the following could possibly make a basis of a linear vector space (dimensionality ≥2)?

  (A) a long vector
  (B) a set of real numbers
  (C) a set of vectors, with varied vector dimensions
  (D) a set of vectors, with the same vector dimension
  
Solution: (d). The vectors in a basis should have the same dimension so every element in the
vector space can be written in a unique way as a finite linear combination of elements of basis.




A linear equation system Ax = b has a single unique solution if?

  (A) A is square
  (B) A is symmetric
  (C) A is square and full rank
  (D) A is square and symmetric
  
Solution: (c). If A is square and full rank, then A is invertible. The unique solution is x = A−1b




In which case the aliasing phenomenon will most likely happen?

  (A) Sampling a signal containing only the DC component
  (B) Sampling a signal containing high-frequency components
  (C) Reconstructing a signal corrupted by noise
  (D) Compressing and transmitting a signal through a noisy channel
  
Solution: (b). Aliasing is an effect that causes different signals to become indistinguishable (or
aliases of one another) when sampled.




Given a K-dimensional vector X (i.e., containing K elements), which one of the following operations
cannot be represented by a linear transformation AX, with regard to some appropriate matrix A?

  (A) Keeping the first three elements of X and discarding others
  (B) Amplifying the vector norm of X by two times
  (C) In the polar coordinate system, rotating the angle of X by 45 degrees
  (D) Sorting all elements by magnitude in the descending order

Solution: (d). Some transformation A can work for some X, but there’s no linear transformation
that can work for any vector.




For the following examples, state whether or not they are legitimate vector spaces, and explain your reasoning (such as provide a counterexample).

  1. The set of polynomials in one variable, of degree at most d.
  
     Solution: True. A vector space means that the elements can be added together and multiplied by
     scalars. Let p(x) = Pn i=0 aixi, and q(x) = Pn i=0 aixi. Then we have p(x) + q(x) = Pn i=0(ai + bi)xi and kp(x) = Pn i=0(kai)xi.
      
  2. The set of continuous functions mapping [0,1] to [0,1], such that f(1) = 1.
  
     Solution: False. Let f,g be two elements in this set, then we have f(1) + g(1) = 2 ̸= 1. So this is not a vector space.
     
  3. If v1,··· ,vm ∈ V are linearly independent, and T : V → W is a linear operator, is it true that Tv1,··· ,Tvm ∈W must be linearly independent? Explain your reasoning.

     Solution: False. T can map everything to zero, so Tvi can all be zero vectors. In this way, they are not linearly independent.
     
  4. If v1,··· ,vm ∈V are dependent, and T : V →W is a linear operator, is it true that Tv1,··· ,Tvm ∈ W must be dependent? Explain your reasoning.
     
     Solution: True. Linear dependent means Paivi = 0 has non-zero solutions. Then, Pai(Tvi) =PTaivi = T Paivi = T0 = 0
     
  
